Ki:
Tell me what I can't say here?
Tony Kaizen:
There's nothing you can't say, I promise.
Zac (cameraman):
There ain't nothing off limits, brother.
Ki:
Okay, fuck it.
Tony Kaizen:
100% uncensored.
This is America, after all. You know what I'm saying?
Ki:
Okay, what you got?
Tony Kaizen:
Alright, we're good? Let's do it, man. Alright so, what's
your name?
Ki:
Ki.
Tony Kaizen:
Ki. Alright, so the first question we got for you is, when
you hear the term the American Dream, what comes to mind?
What does that mean to you?
Ki:
It's kind of antiquated. It depends on the person. The dream
is a dream. I mean it's just a dream. It's not necessarily a
reality. It's a dream, to most.
Tony Kaizen:
To most. Who are you referring to when you say, "to most
people"?
Ki:
Hmm just regular people. Not...the dream is only to people
that can attain it. Like people with money, people with
means, those are the only people that can really, truly
attain that American dream. Most of the people are gonna be
normal. So is that really a dream or is that just living?
Tony Kaizen:
Now, when you think of the dream, are you thinking about,
like, possessions, about status, money? What does the dream
actually mean?
Ki:
The dream is being able to control your life and control how
you live it. Most of the time you're being controlled by
work or something else. Yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
And do you think that most people, you kind of said this
earlier, but do you think most people don't even have a
chance to achieve that dream?
Ki:
I think if they work hard, but it takes work. People aren't
willing to put the work in to attain some of the things that
they want. So most of the time, people don't get it because
they don't work for it, or they don't try. This shit ain't
easy.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah. Do you think it's just hardwork that you need? Or
maybe something else?
Ki:
Shit, you need some luck. Luck happens for everybody. Yeah.
You need some fortune. Luck and fortune. Fortune not in
money, but fortune in opportunity.
Tony Kaizen:
Right, right, right. Yeah. Now, we do know this as, like the
land of opportunity as well. Do you think that this country
in particular has more opportunities than others?
Ki:
Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. First world problems. Yeah.
First world situation. So other parts of the world, you
don't have those opportunities. There is no middle class in
most of the world. We have a middle class.
Tony Kaizen:
So sticking with the topic of the US, like, what are some
things that you love about this country?
Ki:
This. Us.
I mean, I see a white dude. I see...I don't know what the
fuck he is, but he's cool. And you're a black dude,
obviously. It's like a whole bunch of shit, and I like it.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah. Melting pot, right?
Ki:
Yeah, it's a melting pot. So you guys all can...you may not
always agree, but we...we're right here in this
conversation. So yeah, yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay, now, what are some things that you hate or wish were
different or could be better about the US?
Ki:
Hmmm...Every...Oh shiii...That's a good question. That's a
very, very good question. That's a very hard question to
think about. Umm I think what I don't like about this
country is, umm...the, the lies that the country...the
lies that we live in. Social media is a big lie. All the
things that we exist in are mainly about image and how you
look, not how you are, who you are. So the country is about
appearance and not who you are.
Tony Kaizen:
Keeping up with the Joneses.
Ki:
Yeah. Keeping up with the Joneses. Keeping up with
appearances. Looking fly and not being fly. Being
responsible. You know?
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah, that's a good one. Okay, so this next question is not
related to the US, a little more personal. If all the jobs
and professions in the world paid the exact same and you
were prepared to do them, let's say starting tomorrow, what
job would you do?
Ki:
If all the jobs paid the same? Umm, therapist?
Tony Kaizen:
Really? Why?
Ki:
Hmm because I think I like the psychology of people and
helping people.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah. I mean, you say therapist. You mean like sitting in
the office and talking one on one?
Ki:
Yeah. Clinical...clinical therapist or something like that.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay, yeah. What's your background?
Ki:
Art.
Tony Kaizen:
What kind of art?
What do you mean?
Ki:
Art director. So yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay. Psychology, in a way. When you think about it.
Ki:
Yeah. Yeah, I'm solving a...I'm solving a creative problem.
Yeah.
Tony Kaizen:
Nice. Now, how old are you?
Ki:
45.
Tony Kaizen:
45. So let's say you could go back to like 21 or maybe 18
years old and give your younger self some advice, what would
you tell him?
Ki:
I'll slap the shit out of myself.
Tony Kaizen:
Why would you slap him?
Ki:
Oh, cos he fucking stupid. I was a fucking idiot.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah. What's that? What stupid stuff are you doing back
then?
Ki:
Can't say it on this one. Nah uh! Some things don't have a
statute of limitations.
Tony Kaizen:
'Nuff said, 'nuff said. We're going to skip right over that
one. Alright, alright. So the last one is, what are some
things that maybe when people first meet you or get a first
impression of you, that they assume but are certainly not
true?
Ki's wife:
He's a dick!
Ki:
That is true. They assume that I'm an asshole. They assume
that I'm an asshole. That's the first impression that they
get. Probably right. But after you get to know me, probably
not an asshole, fully. But if I go asshole, I go full
asshole. I won't go half ass.
Tony Kaizen:
0 to 100.
Ki:
Yeah I go, I'm always...I'm fully invested in being an
asshole.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay. Now, why do you think people assume that about you,
though?
Ki:
Cos I'm extremely direct and I don't have...I don't suffer
fools gladly. I'm extraordinarily direct.
Tony Kaizen:
What do you mean by that, "You don't suffer fools gladly"?
What does that mean?
Ki:
I don't like stupid shit. I don't like stupid people. I
mean, it's stupid in regards of...you can be oblivious, but
willful...willful idiots bother me. Umm so yeah, willful
idiots bother me. Very simple.
Tony Kaizen:
Do you think in general, going back to the American culture
thing, that we're not very direct people in general and
that's why people assume...
Ki:
You'll cancel. I would get canceled if I was on TV. I'm not
politically correct at all. I'm 40. I'm a...I'm a 45 year
old black man. I've experienced so much dumb shit that you
would not expect so political correctness doesn't really
work for me very well because I think people need a
harsh...a direct message to change. Because if you tell them
nice, they don't listen anyway, they complain about it
so...why be nice? Be honest.
Tony Kaizen:
Now you're much older than me, so you probably have a better
memory of, let's say, 30 or 40 years ago. Do you think that
even back then the whole political correctness thing was a
big part of our culture and society? Or that's recent?
Ki:
Not at all. It's recent. It's recent. It's recent because
you sit...we would sit in these echo chambers now. Social
media is a lot of echo chambers where everybody with a like
mind can agree. Everybody with a like mind can totally
agree.
Tony Kaizen:
It sounds like you're really not happy with the effects that
social media has had on society and our culture.
Ki:
I love social media. I think it's a necessary thing. I just
think that we should still be open to listening to others
and conversing with others and being wrong. We should be...
Nobody can be wrong. We don't like to be wrong...when
somebody is wrong, it's like a mob mentality. Somebody
disagrees...any disagreement is met with mob mentality so I
may not agree with whatever the fuck he is over there,
but...but he seems like a cool guy and we can disagree on
shit but, you know, different shit, right?
Tony Kaizen:
Right. Do you think that is something that's unique to us or
maybe around the world they're kind of feeling the same
effects?
Ki:
It depends on the part of the world, Europe, maybe certain
parts of Europe. Umm first world problems, first world
problems. Other people are trying to get running water,
trying to get access to water. They're not worried
about...they're not worried about shit. I personally don't
give a shit about disagreeing with you when we've got $9
dozen eggs, so we need to get along.
Tony Kaizen:
How do you think that happens?
Ki:
Umm while we're worried about other shit, inflation happens
because they can. Nobody's paying attention to that
so...effectively.
Tony Kaizen:
But in terms of like people coming together and
understanding each other a little bit more, where do you
think that starts? What do we need to change or do
differently?
Ki:
We need to start by being okay with disagreeing with each
other.
Ki's wife:
I totally see that being...
Ki:
Yeah. I'm going to start with being okay with the
disagreement and listening to each other and stop yelling.
If you listen to somebody and stop yelling, then it'll be
better.
Tony Kaizen:
So give people the chance to explain where they're coming
from and teach you how they think.
Ki:
Yeah, where they are. Instead of forcing people to be where
you are, meeting them where they are, and being okay with
them, staying where they are, even if you disagree.
Tony Kaizen:
Right, right. Now, do you see this changing or getting any
better in the future?
Ki:
Oh, it's not getting better. It's only getting worse because
more people are disagreeing. More people are forming these
extreme opinions where they're not wrong. They're always
right.
Tony Kaizen:
You really think there's no...where does this go, though? If
it's getting worse and worse, where do you think this ends
up?
Ki:
Umm it's going to a place where...if you...if you forget the
past, you're doomed to repeat it so...I could...I don't want
to say...I don't want to say yeah, yeah...I saw your
(eye)brows. I don't want to say that. But it could be, when
people sit in these places and when you start to call people
out and say that they're wrong, they are... Then you start
to try to justify why they shouldn't exist. And that becomes
an extreme way of thinking.
Tony Kaizen:
Especially with the technology and weapons we have at our
disposal these days.
Ki:
Exactly. Exactly.
Tony Kaizen:
Now, let me ask you this. Speaking of that, we're not going
to use the word, but in the worst case scenario, things go
all the way to the to the worst possible scenario. Would you
feel some sense of like duty or responsibility to get
involved and maybe fight for your country or anything of
that nature?
Ki:
No, no.
If I needed to fight for my country, I would. But...the duty
to fight for what, though? I would have to have a purpose.
I'm a purpose person. So if there's...if there's no purpose
in it, why do it? I need to understand. I need understanding
for the purpose...what we'd be fighting for, why we'd be
fighting.
Tony Kaizen:
So, as an American, you don't really feel like, as an
American, you have some type of, like, duty to stand up for
Americans?
Ki:
Absolutely. I do. Absolutely. See, that's where I would have
to understand. I mean, my time has passed on the fighting
for the country part. I mean, the only reason I didn't fight
for this country is because I had an injury, a major injury.
So that's the only reason.
Tony Kaizen:
What injury, if you don't mind me asking?
Ki:
Umm ACL, ACL.
Tony Kaizen:
How did you do that?
Ki:
Umm playing baseball. So.
Tony Kaizen:
Okay, I see the shirt. So you're a big baseball fan?
Ki:
I played a little bit. A little bit.
Tony Kaizen:
Yeah. I got you.
Alright, it was Ki, right? Alright, we appreciate you, man.
Thank you so much for your opinion.
Ki:
Hey man...what are...you going? Where's it gon' be?
Tony Kaizen:
On YouTube. Let me share the...